Document object & Window object

Document Object: 

The document object represent a web page that is loaded in the browser. By accessing the document object, we can access the element in the HTML page. With the help of document objects, we can add dynamic content to our web page. The document object can be accessed with a window.document or just document.

Syntax:

document.property_name;

Some of the Properties of document:

activeElement: It returns the currently active elements in the document.

body: It returns the contents of the body element.

cookie: It returns the cookie of the current document.

domain: It returns the domain name of the document server.

doctype: It returns the document’s doctype.

embeds: It returns the collection of all embedded elements.

URL: It returns the complete URL of the document.

Methods of Document:

Syntax:

document.method_name;

The lists of most commonly used methods are listed below:

addEventListener(): It is used to attach an event handler to the specified element.

close(): It is used to close the output stream.

createAttribute(): It is used to create an attribute node with the specified name and returns the attribute object.

createComment(): It is used to create a comment node with some text.

createElement(): It is used to create HTML element .

createEvent(): It is used to create a new events object.

createTextNode(): It is used to create a textnode.
------------------------------------------------------------------
Window Object: 
The window object is the topmost object of the DOM hierarchy. It represents a browser window or frame that displays the contents of the webpage. Whenever a window appears on the screen to display the contents of the document, the window object is created. 

Syntax:

window.property_name;
The properties of Window objects that are commonly used are listed in the below table:

Properties of the window:

Closed: It holds a Boolean value that represents whether the window is closed or not.

console: It returns a reference to the console object which provides access to the browser’s debugging console.

defaultStatus: It is used to define the default message that will be displayed in the status bar when no activity is carried on by the browser.

controllers: It returns the XUL controller objects for the current Chrome window.

Length: It represents the number of frames in the current window.

Location: It contains the URL of the current window.

Methods of Window:

Syntax:

window.method_name;

The methods of Window objects that are commonly used are listed in the below table:

alert(): It is used to display an alert box. It displays a specified message along with an OK button and is generally used to make sure that the information comes through the user.

blur(): It is used to remove focus from the current window.

btoa(): It is used for encoding a string in base-64 format.

clearInterval(): It clears the interval which has been set by the setInterval() function before that.

Difference between document and window:

document:

1. It represents any HTML document or web page that is loaded in the browser.
2. It is loaded inside the window.
3. All the tags, elements with attributes in HTML are part of the document.
4. We can access the document from a window using the window. document
5. The document is part of BOM (browser object model) and dom (Document object model)
6. Properties of document objects such as title, body, cookies, etc can also be accessed by a window like this window. document.title

syntax: document.propertyname;
example: document.title :  will return the title of the document

Window:

1. It represents a browser window or frame that displays the contents of the webpage. 
2. It is the very first object that is loaded in the browser.
3. Global objects, functions, and variables of JavaScript are members of the window object.
4. We can access the window from the window only. i.e. window.window
5. The window is part of BOM, not DOM.
6. Properties of the window object cannot be accessed by the document object.

syntax: window.propertyname;

example:
window.innerHeight : will return the height of the content area of the browser






